## NSO - Network Services Orchestrator

> NSO? Not So Obvious? :worried:   
> No worries, in this Chapter you will find out more about Network Services Orchestrator and its architecture!

**Cisco® Network Services Orchestrator (NSO)** is a software-defined networking (SDN) solution that helps network operators manage and configure multiple multivendor network elements as per a given service definition by automating these services (adding/changing/deleting) across traditional and virtualized networks

**SDN** - network architecture approach that enables the network to be intelligently and centrally controlled, or ‘programmed’ using software applications


### What are the key functions of NSO?
NSO focuses not only on reading but WRITING configurations to the network as well. NSO provides configuration management for both **devices** and network **services**. Any detailed parameter can be changed and NSO will generate the **minimum configuration changes** to the devices (not the entire config files). 

All or nothing! NSO applies also distributed **transactions** to all network changes - if there is an error on any device when committing a change to the network, none of the other devices in that transaction will be changed. This includes as well non-transactional devices like CLI and SNMP.  

### Mentioned about the Service Management?
Absolutely! NSO stands for the Network **Services** Orchestrator not without a reason! There is a **Service Manager**! NSO is typically used for provisioning network services like VPNs, ACLs, BGP Peers, etc. It provisions services and device configurations as one atomic transaction. Create, modify, repair, and delete services on-demand!



### Which types of network devices can NSO manage?
Any device that can be remotely configured can be managed by NSO. This includes, routers, switches, load-balancers, firewalls, web servers and a whole host of other devices (both virtual and physical). Since it is not limited to one **type** of device or particular **vendor**, NSO allows for management of the entire network from a single pane of glass.

### How does NSO handle interfaces to different types of devices?
NSO supports multi-vendor networks! The device interfaces are managed by NSO **Network Element Drivers (NEDs)**. Cisco provides NEDs to Juniper, Cisco, Alcatel-Lucent, Ericsson, A10, F5, BF5rocade, HP, Huawei, and others. Additional NEDs can be ordered from Cisco or developed by end-customers and integrators.



### So there is a Device Management as well?
The NSO **device manager** is the centre of NSO. It maintains a flat list of all managed devices and handles as well network device turn up, configuration, and capability management. This reduces manual efforts to manage network elements and lowers risk of errors coming from the input. 

### What is doing NSO if someone change something on the devices?
NSO can also perform network audits to detect if any device configuration has changed with respect to the desired service configuration. The diff can be displayed and analyzed and the service can be **synced** with NSO or device.

### Synced with NSO? So how the data is stored there?
At the core of NSO is the **Configuration Database (CDB)**. This is a tree-structured database that is controlled by a YANG schema. This means that all of the information stored inside of NSO is validated against the schema. The CDB always contains NSOs view of the complete network configuration. 



### ACL NSO Use Case - So how can we help Carl?

NSO is used to simplify the management of Access Control Lists (ACLs) across network devices. Update ACLs on multiple devices on demand, ensuring that security policies are applied consistently across the entire infrastructure. Policies are translated (by the service models) into the exact syntax needed for the specific vendors and devices, and then delivered to the device using the appropriate NED.

---
<h4 align="center">[2/12]</h4>
<h4 align="center"> <a href="../README.md"> :arrow_left: Intro </a> || <a href="/readme/2.md"> What are we going to do? :arrow_right: </a> </h4>
