## Summary

> :clap: :tada: Done!  
> One-click button and Carl with his friends from the company Live! are happy!

### What you've learnt:  
:white_check_mark:  What's the **NSO** and its general concepts  
:white_check_mark:  How to **design** the Service  
:white_check_mark:  How to **develop** the Service with XML Template, YANG and Python  
:white_check_mark:  How to **deploy** the Service  
:white_check_mark:  How to create an **App** on top of the NSO  

### Continue learning:
- **Walk-in Lab: LABNMS-1009 - Automating Services with NSO** - test your knowledge on more complex scenario of L3VPN Service creation
- **DevNet Workshop: DEVWKS-2449 - Python for Network Enterprise Elements** - find out more about Network Automation using Python with NETCONF, YANG Data Models and RESTCONF

:exclamation: **NSO** is now **free** to download for non-production use! Install it and start automating your network from today! - https://developer.cisco.com/site/nso/

### Why?  
- Accelerate revenue-generating services with automated, self-service, on-demand provisioning that reduces activation times from months to minutes.  
- Increase agility and scale with the capability to create, reconfigure, and repurpose services in real time with virtually unlimited horizontal scale.  
- Simplify your network operations by automating the end-to-end service lifecycle and reducing manual configuration steps by up to 90 percent.  
- Promote open architectures with multi-vendor capabilities to automate advanced device features, easily bundle multiple network services, and help assure them in real time.  
- Ensure trusted operations with the industry’s most robust feature set for ensuring trust across the network, other management systems and NSO clients, apps and users.  

---
<h4 align="center">[12/12]</h4>
<h4 align="center"> <a href="/readme/7.md"> :arrow_left: Custom UI! </a> </h4>
